So now we're going to talk through the different purchase types
that you get when you're working with EC2.
So first of all, we have On‑Demand.
And if you just launch an instance by default, this is what you're going to get.
We then have the option for Reserved Instances.
Then we have Savings Plans, which was a newer option.
Then we have Spot Instances and Dedicated Host Instances.
So let's understand each of these options and when you would want to use them.
So, first of all, we have Reserved Instances,
and what this does is this provides discounts over that On‑Demand model,
which, again,
is going to be your default model when you can
commit to a specific period of time, which is going to be one or three years.
In addition,
it also provides a capacity reservation for the
specific instance type that you specify.
So you can make sure that when you go to launch that that that's going to be
there for the entire period of time that you sign up for.
Now within Reserved Instances, there are multiple types,
and let's quickly review these.
Now, as a note here,
you're not going to need to dive super deep into each of these for the exam,
but I do think it's important to understand the
different approaches that you can take.
So first we have Standard, and this gives you the highest discount,
and it works well for steady workloads.
But, if you have a Standard Reserved Instance,
what that means is is that if you want to get a bigger instance type,
you can't make that change,
you're locked in for that period of either one or three years.
And that's why we have a Convertible Reserved Instance.
And with this,
this does allow us to convert some of the attributes if it's going
to be of equal value to what we already have.
This is also great for steady workloads.
Now, in some situations you're going to have predictable,
but not steady workloads, and if that's the case,
you can create a Scheduled Reserved Instance.
So this is able to have a time window attached to it,
and so if you know, for example,
that during weekdays for a specific period of time you're going to have a lot
of usage and you want to get a Reserved Instance for that,
the Scheduled type would work well.
Now let's look at just the Standard Reserved Instance cost model.
So, with this you have some choices.
You can specify that you want to pay this all up front.
So you can say if it's one or three years,
you want to pay all of it,
and this is going to give you the highest level of savings,
but it's also going to require the biggest upfront investment for that instance.
You can then do a partial up front,
and this is going to enable you to pay part of that
one or three‑year period up front, and then you'll have a reduced monthly cost.
But even if you don't choose either of those,
if you take a no upfront approach,
you're not going to have to pay anything up front,
but you'll still get a reduced monthly cost over the On‑Demand option.
So here's the way to look at it.
Here on the far left we have the maximum savings,
and on the far right we have the minimum up front cost.
So you need to be able to evaluate a situation and determine
which of these would make the most sense.
Now next we have the option that is the Savings Plans option.
Now this is very similar in concept to Reserved Instances,
but one of the key differences is that it's not just limited to EC2,
it supports compute with EC2, Fargate, and AWS Lambda.
But unlike Reserved Instances, it does not reserve capacity.
Now, that being said, there's still a way you can reserve capacity with savings,
but it's going to be in addition to what you do with Savings Plans,
and it can provide savings of up to 72%.
And just as with Reserved Instances, it comes in one or three‑year terms.
However, if you want to get the biggest price reduction,
you can look at Spot Instances,
and this really enables you to leverage the excess EC2 compute
capacity that might exist within an availability zone.
So let's quickly look at some notes here on Spot Instances.
First of all, it can provide up to 90% in discounts over On‑Demand pricing.
Now with this, there is a market price for instance types per availability zone,
and this is called the Spot price.
So think of this almost like a stock market for excess compute capacity.
Now, when you request instances, if your bid is higher than the Spot price,
then you'll be able to launch your instances.
Now if the Spot price grows to exceed your bid,
then your instance is going to be terminated.
Now, it's not instant, you do get 2 minutes prior to termination.
However,
what this means is this will only work for workloads that can start
and stop without affecting what you're trying to do.
So if that's your use case, you can get great savings by using Spot Instances.
Next, we have the Dedicated Host option,
and this gives you a dedicated physical server in the data center.
Now this is going to be your most expensive option,
but there's two use cases that you need to know
that would require this approach.
The first is going to be if you have a per‑server licensing model and you
want to be sure you're abiding by the terms of that license.
In that case, you'll need to use this option.
Also for some compliance requirements,
it requires that you utilize a dedicated host,
and if that's the case you'll also need to use this pricing model.
So let's quickly review the different options.
First of all, if you have an instance that is consistent and always needed,
you should purchase a Standard or Convertible Reserved Instance.
Next,
if you have batch processing where you can start and
stop without affecting the overall job,
this is where you should look to leverage Spot Instances because
this is going to give you the maximum savings.
So next,
if you have an inconsistent need for instances and you can't
stop it without affecting the overall job,
this is where you want to look at just the Standard On‑Demand Instances.
Now a few other notes here.
If you have specific per‑server licensing or if you have a
compliance requirement for a dedicated server,
you should use Dedicated Host.
And also here if you're leveraging Lambda and/or Fargate alongside EC2 and
want to achieve discounts for a one or three‑year period,
this is where you can choose a Savings Plan.
But if you have predictable, but not steady workloads in EC2,
you should purchase a Scheduled Reserved Instance.
Now let's look at some examples specific to Reserved Instances.
So first, let's say that we have a t3.medium.
So we can see here it's a little over $.04 per hour.
Now if we look to purchase an EC2 Reserved Instance,
if we do all upfront for one year, we pay $213.
If we look at the effective hourly rate, that's going to be about $.02.4.
That's going to save us about $150.
And if we look at the same thing for three years,
we're going to have the ability to save over $680.
So here,
our savings are only going to increase as we move to bigger instance types.
So here, if we look at a compute optimized instance like a c5d.24xlarge,
the On‑Demand rate is going to be $4.60,
almost $.61 cents per hour.
Now if we look here at just a partial upfront for only a year,
what we're going to do is we're going to pay $12,000
plus a little bit more up front, and then we're going to pay about $1000 monthly.
What this does is this lowers the effective hourly rate
to $2.76 a little bit more per hour.
That gives us about 40% savings.
We can look also here at an i3.16xlarge. We can see here that the On‑Demand
rate is almost $5 and we're able to achieve 52% savings.
So even though the cost is high here,
if you need this specific instance type, this approach is
going to give you a lot of savings if you can commit to
the one or three‑year period.
Now if we look here at spot instances,
this is where we're going to see even more savings.
So let's take a look at our t3.medium that we mentioned earlier. So On‑Demand
is going to be about $.04 per hour, and with Spot pricing we can see this get
down to maybe a little bit over $.01 per hour.
Now, as a reminder, this is a market price, so this is going to change.
This is when I was actually looking at the pricing when I was creating
this course, here's what you could get this for.
You can see here, this is going to give us about 70% savings.
Now we can also look at our c5d.24xlarge. Here we're going to see 80% savings.
And we also can see 70% if we're looking at our i3.16xlarge.
So you can see here that there are huge benefits to exploring the different pricing models that you can leverage with Amazon EC2.